Minecraft

Minecraft is dangerous. You can sit down to a new randomly generated world for a quick session only to snap out of the creative haze many hours later to realize you've forgotten to eat, sleep, and go to the bathroom. 
There's always just one more tunnel to carve, one more resource to harvest, one more tool to forge, or one more to-scale replica of the Star Trek Enterprise to re-create block by block. 
The ability to exercise limitless freedom and mold the game's retro fantasy world to your liking is powerfully addictive, and this indie-developed sandbox phenomenon holds a staggering level of depth. 
Some of the game's elements still feel rough and unfinished, but nevertheless, once Minecraft sinks its hooks into you, it won't let go.
Though it initially lacks any tangible plot or specific direction to follow, the real beauty of Minecraft lies in the fact that neither is needed. 
You get out of the game what you choose to put into it, which allows you to pursue the aspects that most appeal to you. 
Survival mode is where the experience comes closest to resembling a game in a traditional sense. Dropped into a lovely but primitive-looking 3D world, you're free to explore, build, and adventure as you see fit. 
Unique biomes like thick forests, swamps, mountain ranges, deserts, and icy tundras hold many resources to harvest, and the jagged landscape itself is your key to survival in these first tenuous steps of the adventure. 
You start out empty-handed and danger-prone, but carving out the land yields tons of resources needed to generate food, craft weapons and armor, and form crucial tools.
 Building a shelter with stone, wood, and other blocks is also important; nightfall ushers in the arrival of meandering killer creatures that range from the exploding creepers and mumbling zombies to the enigmatic endermen and arrow-flinging skeletons. 
 There's a cool natural flow to the day/night cycle that encourages you to shift gears between fiddling around on the surface and hunkering down or heading below ground.
 
 
Hearthstone

The key to understanding Hearthstone lies in its very name. Not only does it refer to the white-and-turquoise rock that has sent the World of Warcraft faithful back to inns since 2004; 
it also suggests friendly competition far removed from the battles and weighty stratagems of other collectible card games. 
Its cozy syllables evoke not laborious campaigns lasting hours, but quick matches that take no longer than it takes to gulp down a mug of ale. I
f World of Warcraft is the everyman's massively multiplayer online game, this is the everyman's collectible card game, and for the most part, Blizzard has justified the fanfare that erupted when it first appeared last March.
Few other card games rival its personality, which reveals itself in the little things, such as the way you can tap iron gongs and fiddle with water mills on the board in the 90 seconds when you're awaiting a challenger's next move, 
or in the way a chorus of rough-and-tumble dwarves and orcs erupts in cheers when you've made a good move. 
You find it in the flashier details as well, such as the way the mage's arcane missiles pelt enemy heroes with sound files yanked from World of Warcraft, 
or in the way some of Warcraft's most exaggerated figures guide through a tutorial that's as helpful as it is fun. 
The emo night elf Illidan from Warcraft III and WOW's Burning Crusade expansion wraps up the swift campaign, still spouting his convictions that we're unprepared. 

Don't Starve

Like in any extreme survival situation, the early moments of Don't Starve's grueling-yet-fascinating struggle to stay alive are electric. 
Suddenly the clock is ticking. Confidence is high as you first explore a vast open-world wilderness teeming with danger. 
From trapping a rabbit for the first time to crafting an axe to chop precious firewood before nightfall, every minor accomplishment that keeps you ticking is immediately gratifying. 
But as the days draw on and dodging death's icy grip gets harder, the rigors of this unflinchingly brutal roguelike adventure chip away at your patience.
Don't Starve casts you in the unfortunate role of Wilson, a scientist who has been mysteriously transported to a strange and deadly world by a demon-gentleman. 
With little more than a quick greeting, your adversary vanishes, and you're left alone to figure out how to stay alive. Story and dialogue are pretty minimal, aside from a few encounters in the super tough adventure mode,
which is accessed by first locating a portal hidden in the randomly generated survival mode world. 
The hands-off nature of the story is a strength, allowing the heavy atmosphere and outstanding visual design of this grim land draw you in. 
There's little time for dalliances anyway. A great many things in the game's eerie world are out to kill you from the get-go.

World of Warcraft

Though massively multiplayer online role-playing games have been around for years, it has taken this long for the genre's breakthrough hit to finally emerge. 
Here is the online role-playing game you should play, no matter who you are. This is because World of Warcraft brings out all the best aspects of this style of gaming, if not many of the best aspects of gaming in general. 
It also features many of the specific characteristics that have made Blizzard Entertainment's previous games so entertaining, memorable, long-lasting, and successful. 
Of course, the company's past track record did not guarantee that World of Warcraft could have turned out this well. 
Such high quality simply cannot be expected, nor should it be missed. In World of Warcraft, you create your alter ego by choosing from a variety of colorful races and powerful classes, 
and then you begin exploring, questing, and battling in Azeroth, the fantasy setting featured in Blizzard's Warcraft real-time strategy games. 
Fans of those games (especially Warcraft III and its expansion pack) will spot tons of references here, and they will be impressed at how faithfully World of Warcraft translates
so many of Warcraft's little details and even some of the finer points of its gameplay into such a seemingly different style of game.
Meanwhile, fans of other online role-playing games will be impressed at the sheer breadth and volume of content on display in World of Warcraft,
whose setting seamlessly connects a bunch of wildly different-looking types of places and somehow makes them appear as if they all belong as parts of a whole.

Ark Survival Evolved

After a couple of dozen hours exploring the dinosaur survival simulation from developer Studio Wildcard, I’ve barely scratched the surface of what is both an impressive achievement and a deeply frustrating experience. 
One moment I was beaming over how I was able to slap together a hut on the beach and start a fire to keep warm during a long and spooky prehistoric night. 
The next I was swearing until I was out of breath after being killed yet again by a Dilophosaurus or a pack of Compys or a Titanoboa or whatever else decided to roar out of the jungle for a snack.
This is a pure, hardcore survival game where you’re dropped in your tighty whities on a beach by beings unknown (UFO-like monoliths float in the sky) with the sole goal of figuring
out how to stay alive. Land and sea are populated with all sorts of dinosaurs and other assorted prehistoric creatures, ranging from the milquetoast Dodos and Moschops to aggressive predators like the Spinosaurus, 
the Megapiranha, the Troodon, the Raptor, and much, much more. So not only are you stuck essentially naked with nothing other than your wits to keep you breathing, 
just about everything stuck here with you has big pointy teeth and zero qualms about using them to rip you to pieces.
That said, there isn’t much of a learning curve. Everything is based on a hunter-gatherer system where you collect resources by killing animals for their hides and meat and other goodies,
and by chopping down trees, smashing up rocks, and scavenging in the jungle for wood, stone, flint, berries, fiber, and more. 
Leveling up--which happens fast and frequently throughout the game to keep things interesting--provides points used to purchase engrams that serve as plans for all of the survival gear that you can make. 
You start with caveman stuff like stone axes, thatch huts, ragged clothing, and campfires, but soon progress to compasses, spyglasses, bows and arrows, wood structures, gunpowder, and more. 
Stick with things long enough and you move into the modern era with rifles and radios.

Forest

The broad premise of The Forest is far from unique. A plane crash lands on a seemingly deserted island, and you, a lone survivor, have to figure out a way to survive. 
It doesn't take long, however, until blood curdling screeches fill the night and glowing eyes appear in the distance. 
Once it sets in that your new home isn't as empty as it first appeared, The Forest evolves into a uniquely harrowing adventure that you won't soon forget.
Cannibals inhabit the grassy fields and pristine lakes around you, watching your every move; they are the source of The Forest's ever-present tension.
You might expect monsters like this to attack on sight, but their behavior is erratic. Sometimes they'll charge forward to unsettle you during daylight but stop just outside striking distance to simply stare in silence. 
Other times they might feign a retreat before leaping into nearby trees to quickly get behind you. The Forest's enemies aren't easy to predict, which makes each encounter thrilling.
The breadth of enemy types is impressive too, and they can get surprisingly weird. As you explore the island more and dive into terrifying, pitch-black caverns, 
enemies transform into terrifying body-horror figures--amalgamations of appendages that bellow deep, disturbing howls. They're frightening to behold and even scarier to fight.

Binding of Isaac

Isaac's descent begins in a basement. This floor and all subsequent floors are divided into single, connecting rooms that contain monsters or items. 
A boss chamber lies at the end of the maze and houses a gruesome fiend that Isaac must overcome before descending to the next floor. 
Isaac's initial attack is weaponized crying--meaning he can strike foes from afar by blinking out crocodile-sized tears in four directions. 
Keys, bombs, and other items become available as you progress, but no matter how strong you become, death remains a constant companion during this challenging journey. 
Bite the dust and you'll have to start the whole game over again. The randomized structure of each floor means no two play sessions are exactly alike. 
Although the path may be different, there are still a few familiar stops along the way. Most common are the enemies. 
If you're lucky, flies and lava will be the most of your troubles, but most likely, your move-and-shoot abilities will be tested by flaming, headless torsos or blood-vomiting gluttons. 
As you progress these enemies will evolve and learn new tricks to maintain the challenge. If you have a few keys handy, then you can access the item shops and special item rooms located on each floor. 
In lieu of gaining levels, Isaac's power increases by collecting items, which can increase his stats or confer special abilities.
Chances are that by the end of the game, you won't even recognize Isaac. Discovering new items and experimenting with different item combinations are the most appealing aspects of the game.

Stardew Valley

On the surface, Stardew Valley is a game about farming, but there are more adventures awaiting curious players beyond cultivating a rich and bountiful garden. 
From mining and fishing to making friends and falling in love, Stardew Valley's Pelican Town is stuffed with rewarding opportunities. 
As modern day woes give way to pressing matters on the farm and within your newfound community, Stardew Valley's meditative activities often lead to personal reflection in the real world. 
It’s a game that tugs at your curiousity as often as it does your heart. Your journey begins in the field, cleaning up a neglected and rundown farm. 
Plotting and planning your garden requires care and attention to detail. What fruits and vegetables do you grow? 
How much room does each plant need? How do you protect your crops from nature's troublemakers? You learn through practice, 
and while the basics are easy to grasp, you quickly need to figure out the best way to outfit your budding farm with new tools and equipment.
Upgrades help speed up essential tasks like tilling the earth and watering your plants, but advanced equipment becomes a necessity when the time comes to break down large rocks and stumps that stick out in your garden. 
The crafting menu also entices you with optional time-saving tools; automated sprinklers that water the crops every morning,
artisan equipment to make preserves or beer out of your harvest, and refineries, such as a furnace for turning ore into metal bars. 
If you want something, you can make it, you just have to scour your environment for the necessary components.

Euro Truck
Euro Truck Simulator is that rare thing, a strong sim tethered to a strong game. Where other vehicle-obsessed devs seem to take player motivation for granted, 
Czech studio SCS understand that a pleasingly modelled steed needs a pleasingly modelled environment to shine. On this occasion that environment is a swathe of Europe stretching from Plymouth in the west to Wroclaw in the east, 
from Aberdeen in the north to Milan in the South. The tangle of motorways and major roads is stylised and condensed, but feels massive. 
After a splendid week of non-stop trucking the stats screen tells me I've still only seen 50% of it. There's satisfaction in exploring new routes, 
seeing new golden been-there-done-that squiggles appearing on the in-game map, but it tends to be the promise of cold, hard cash that gets you out of bed in the morning. 
Like Farming Simulator, ETS2 has a simple yet resonant economic sandbox at its centre. You start as a low-skilled, truckless lorry jockey, forced to take work from established haulage companies. 
Slowly (or rapidly if you go to a bank) you amass the funds to buy your first rig and rent your first yard. 
Then the fun really begins. Contract perusing, truck pimping, skill upgrading, driver hiring... this is Eddie Stobart: The Game in all but name.

Overwatch

Overwatch is an exercise in refined chaos. There are multitudes of layers hiding beneath the hectic surface, and they emerge, 
one after another, the more you play. This is a shooter that knows how to surprise, one that unfolds at a frantic pace, one that takes a handful of great ideas, and combines them into something spectacular.
At first glance, it's a simple formula: two teams of six vie for control of mobile payloads, capture points, and key strategic positions. 
Each of its four modes are easy to grasp, serving as the foundation for the various maps and the powerful heroes colliding within them. 
That apparent simplicity is deceiving, though. Overwatch is an amorphous, shapeshifting organism that mean different things for different players, depending on which hero you choose, 
and what role you assume within the context of your team. The quality of Overwatch, as a hero shooter, relies on its fighters. 
And these 21 heroes, both in terms of personality and design, compose one of the more distinct and diverse casts in recent memory. 
Their dialogue hints at relationships among the group. Their art design conveys a stark visual vocabulary. Their abilities set the stage for multidimensional firefights with explosions, e
nergy shields, and bursts of sonic energy. There's an enticing balance between mastering one character and trying someone completely new.
